---
layout: post
title: Introduction to Machine Learning
date: 2024-07-24 00:00:00
description:
tags: introduction
categories: machinelearning
related_posts: false
sitemap: true
---

## What is Machine Learning?

> Machine Learning is the field of study that gives computers the ability to learn without being explicitly programmed. - Arthur Samuel, 1959

From an engineering perspective, machine learning can be defined as:

- **P**: Performance
- **T**: Task
- **E**: Experience

For example, a **spam filter** is a _task_, and the _performance_ is the **accuracy** of the filter. The _experience_ is the **training data** that the filter is trained on. The goal of machine learning is to improve the performance of a task by learning from experience. In the case of the spam filter, the goal is to improve the accuracy of the filter by learning from training data.

Machine learning is suitable for the following problems

- Require a lot of hand-tuning or long lists of rules.
- Complex where traditional methods do not work well.
- Fluctuating over time where the data changes frequently.

The alternative to machine learning is **hand-crafted rules**. For example, a spam filter could be built by hand-crafting rules such as:

- If the email contains the word "coupon", then it is spam.
- If the email is from a known spammer, then it is spam.
- If the email is from a friend, then it is not spam.

The problem with hand-crafted rules is that they are **brittle**. For example, if the word "coupon" is replaced with "koupon",then the rule will not work. Machine learning is more robust because it learns which words are associated with spam from the data.

## Components

The three major components of a machine learning system are:

- [Data](http://amgadmadkour.com/notes/ml/concept/data)
- [Model](http://amgadmadkour.com/notes/ml/concept/model)
- [Learning](http://amgadmadkour.com/notes/ml/concept/learning)

## Types of Learning

There are several ways to categorize machine learning algorithms. One way is to categorize them by the type of learning they use. The following is a list of the types of learning:

1. Trained using human **supervision**.
   1. Supervised Learning: The training data is labeled.
   2. Unsupervised Learning: The training data is unlabeled.
   3. Semi-supervised Learning: The training data is partially labeled.
   4. Reinforcement Learning: The training data is the result of an agent interacting with an environment.
2. Learn by **detecting patterns**.
   1. Instance-based Learning: The system learns the training data and uses a similarity measure to generalize to new instances.
   2. Model-based Learning: The system learns a model of the training data and uses the model to generalize to new instances.
3. Learn **incrementally** or **on the fly**.
   1. Online Learning: The system learns incrementally from a stream of data.
   2. Batch Learning: The system learns from a fixed dataset.

## Pillars of Machine Learning

- Classification
- Regression
- Dimensionality Reduction
- Density Estimation
